Final Project, Part 1: Lightning Talk

Idea #1
Compare voting results for Major League Baseball individual awards with newer, recently developed stats.

Problem: 
Major League Baseball has end-of-year awards for MVP, best pitcher, and best rookie. These awards are voted on by old-timey baseball journalists, who traditionally dislike data analysis and who tend to rely on outdated or misleading statistical indicators (e.g., batting average, RBI, pitching wins). This has often resulted in players winning awards who weren't necessarily the best player in their league, position, or even their own team. 

Over the past decade, however, empirical data analysis has become more accepted by those in baseball circles (front offices, managers, players) as well as by fans. But what about sportswriters? Have they joined the 21st century? Has the (relative) acceptance of newer, improved stats translated into more accurate award voting? Are previously overlooked players now being recognized for their contributions?

Datasets:
* Year-by-year awards, including voting breakdown, are available dating back to 1911 (baseball-reference.com). 
* Newer stats like WAR have been been tabulated retroactively for all players in history (baseball-reference.com).

Hypothesis: 
* Top 10 voting results for 2006-2015 for MVP, best pitcher, and best rookie increasingly converge toward leaders in newer stats that better capture a player's contributions (e.g., Wins Above Replacement). 



Idea #2
Predict Instagram likes. Can we predict how many likes an Instagram photo will get based on the (1) the user's number of followers, (2) number of hashtags in the post, (3) and popularity of each hashtag?

Problem: Some people flood their photos with hashtags, while some prefer to select only ones they think will have the biggest impact, while some just them to be #ironic. The problem with selecting common hashtags is the user's photo will be bunched together with thousands of others and it will be lost in the shuffle. From that it follows that hashtags should be at a certain popularity range (not too obscure, but not too common either) .

Data: Instagram API?

Hypotheses: There is an optimal way to maximize likes through hashtag use, independent of time of day, photo content, or other factors. 


Idea #3
Analyze IMDb ratings for TV shows vs movies. 

Problem: The most highly regarded TV shows (in a mass-appeal sense) tend to be around 9.5 or 9.6 on IMDb, while almost no movie is above 9.0. With the line between television and movies being blurred (e.g., binge-watching a Netflix series feels like watching several movies in a row), it makes sense to be able to compare the two directly. Can we normalize movies and TV shows to compare them better? If we did, which ones would be at the top? What are the demographic tendencies for each medium? 

Data: Open Movie Database (OMDB API) http://www.omdbapi.com/

Hypotheses: ??
